In this video we'll look at the options for payment systems that we can use with newcomers.
There are lots of integrated solutions for collecting payments with newcomers and we'll look at some
We'll also learn how to manage inventory and product tracking directly in the Wordpress dashboard.
By the end of this video you'll be able to set up a client with a simple payment and product tracking
Let's start by logging into the Wordpress dashboard where we've been working with our wew commerce site.
And let's check out the two menu items that newcomer's gives us when it's installed.
The one we've been working with is the custom post type called products and we've looked at all those
This is where you would manage your tracking and looking at orders coupons reports etc. and under the
Settings button that will open up a number of different settings that we can set.
Now if we go over to check out that will give us our options for what kinds of payments that we might
If you scroll all the way to the bottom of that checkouts tab page you can see that the payment gateway
Now a direct bank transfer is something that you can enable a check payment where they would send you
paid before you ship it out or allow the customer to download it.
Cash on delivery.
That's obvious if you have a physical location or if you just want to put in payments manually and then
Paypal Pay-Pal is a standard gateway that is really well used and popular.
fees they charge a little bit per transaction.
that they take as a fee from the seller or the person receiving the payment.
And this is very comparable and even less expensive than having a built in merchant account and a gateway
That is how current card payments were traditionally taken in the past.
Pay-Pal I think is the easiest way to get started with allowing you or your clients to take online payments
using either a PayPal account or a credit card.
Lots of people feel more comfortable making online payments through a merchant like PayPal because you
Paypal keeps that secure and then processes the payment for you and allows the commerce system to track
are that it allows you to collect credit cards on an online site without charging an upfront fee at
Pay Powles regular pay pal payment system is free to use except for the fees that they take out of payments
after you receive the payments.
And at the same time the Pay-Pal standard extension for commerce comes with newcomer's plug in itself
and you don't have to buy an extra extension or any kind of additional functionality so within the commerce
settings page how do you enable people in the first place.
If you click the Pay-Pal item here under the checkout tab you can see that there's an enable and disable
checkbox so you can just click the checkbox to enable Pay-Pal standard and then you can choose the options
You can edit the description and that's the great thing about Pay-Pal is you can pay with your credit
And I think that's the standard message.
You put an e-mail address that Paypal is associated with you and then you can go down and choose any
Generally with just the e-mail address you can set up PayPal standard to check take credit card payments
bank account of yours.
Now there's a number of ways that your web site can engage with PayPal in terms of different extensions
that will comer's has to make your web site able to take payments through paypal Paypal standard is
And I found this document the Paypal extension comparison by just searching for the word Pay-Pal in
And let's just take a look at some of the different items.
A lot of these extensions are third party extensions that have been made to connect with commerce and
The main difference between Pay-Pal standard and many of these others is that with Pay-Pal standard
if you don't keep the customer on your website when they make their final transaction and many customers
and online shoppers are very very familiar with this process we're using Pay-Pal standard when the person
in or use a credit card.
And then when they complete the transaction Paypal sends them back to your Web site.
One of the advantages of using something like pay pal pro is that during the entire transaction the
Many people are familiar with paypal and know that if they go and pay with pay pal they get redirected
And that page that you send your customers to can also have your logo and your business name embedded
In the first place.
Another thing about using Pay Pal pro is that an SSL certificate or a secure sockets layer certificate
is required to have people fill out credit card information on the Web site directly by using Paypal
standard.
You can use a standard HTP site instead of the HTP s that comes when you use a secure sockets layer
certificate.
We'll talk about SSL certificates and the benefits of using those in the next chapter.
Now let's take a quick look inside the Pay-Pal dot com Web site itself so that you can or you can coach
So when you click the sign up button on the right hand side click a business account and you can use
So if you just click business account and then hit next you can see there's two choices you're presented
And then the paper our payments Pro which does cost $30 a month but it allows your customers to stay
However it also requires that you have HGT P.S. which will learn about in the next chapter.
But if you click select standard then it'll ask you for some different information you'll verify an
you can go on and continue to set up your bank account information and other information paypal needs
And then you'll be able to take credit card payments online with the paypal payments standard set up.
All you need to know is the e-mail address associated with your client's paypal account and you can
Let's take a look at check payments options.
So if you click Check payments and you have that enabled basically there's just a description title
it out anything you want in this field.
Now of course if you are unable check payments you'll have to receive them in the mail.
Open them and make that deposit and make sure that the funds have cleared your account before you enable
And that's true of the direct bank transfer process as well.
bank account through the wood commerce site.
But again this is not an automatic payment gateway like PayPal or another credit card processor.
You still have to make sure that your bank has received the funds before you open up the product to
So how do you choose which payment option is right for you or for your customer.
There are a lot of options and each has a different fee structure and a different type of setup.
Pay-Pal and Strype are very similar to each other and are excellent payment processors to be able to
documentation site.
I just found this article by searching for payment options.
And this is something that you could do some research on and see which types of payment gateways or
The next thing to go over in this video is just the simple ability for Wu commers the in to track your
inventory and your customers or clients products inside of their e-commerce store under that Wu comer's
menu item you can look at reports or orders Let's click orders and check out what we have to look at
Basically we will see receive notification in this section when we receive a new order.
You can click learn more about orders by using this button and it'll go to the documentation at newcomer's
dot com under reports.
And over here on the right side are stock reports.
or when it's out-of-stock or what products are the most stocked in your stocking system.
If you look inside of a product itself let's open products and we'll just choose a product right here.
On the product editing page if you scroll down a little bit you can see that one of the items under
If you check the check box it says and label stock management at product level.
That means that you can put in the number of pieces that you have in stock and then you can either allow
You can even choose to allow it but notify the customer that there's been a back order.
item to be sold individually.
In this lesson you learned how to set up credit card processing through paypal and commerce and also
how to enable to other types of payment processing when using the A C S or bank account clearing system
and accepting checks.
The store owner must manually finalize the sale after payment has cleared as opposed to an automated
It will be up to you and your clients to decide which methods are best in the next video will set up
One of the great things about newcomer's is its ability to manage the downloading permissions for digital
Let's check it out.